And I always felt that it was extremely romantic.
What activities exactly were they both involved
in in the community? Well, my mother was a
prominent artist in this area, and she belonged to
the Women's Club, which she was always very proud
of. The Women's Club to her was an especially
festive occasion, and it is the last thing she gave
up. once its vice president. She was very active in
church work, and so was my father. She taught a
Sunday school class and went to church every
Sunday till long late in life. And I remember quite
distinctly her discussing the problem of going to
church with one of my younger sons, who thought he
didn't need to go to church. And he said to her, he
said, well, you don't go to church. And she said, I
have been. That's great. How many were in your
family? My mother and father had five children.
Are they living in this area, too? Yes, two of my
sisters, too, and my brother. I've lost one
brother, and the rest of them do live around
here. You told me your mother was involved in the
women's club. What exactly activities were they
involved in? Well, those ladies have spent their
whole history in contributing to the cultural
activities of the community. The library for
instance is their They have, over the years, given
us thousands and thousands of dollars to the
library, and they continue to do so. They have
brought the best speakers and artists that they
could to the club, paid them well, so that people in
the community might have the privilege of
listening to
them. You mentioned your mother was an artist.
drawings did she do? She did everything.
Portraits and flowers and landscapes. I often
think that her, the best thing she did were flower
portraits. She did a blue bike picture which is as
big as that wall over there. My goodness. I love it.
I own now. And she, my father the night she died was
was telling how she painted and how—well, I
remembered it's a—in the distance, you see this
little country road, and in the distance you can
see the church and the courthouse in Anderson,
Texas. Well, they sat on stools in that road, and
she painted all day and however long it
took her to do it. That's great. Did she do oil
painting? Yes, she painted in oil. She painted all
in watercolor with two mediums she used, and
charcoal. Were these available when she was
younger and drawing, or when did she start this,
when she was young? I asked her once, and she said
she could not remember when she was not drawing and
painting. That's great. Do you draw yourself? I
couldn't draw a straight line if I had to, nor can I
open a can. Did she sell a number of these paintings
over the years?
Yes, she did. That's great. There are a lot of her
works, and she did a series of portraits of Texas
heroes, and each of the schools named for one of
those, that portrait is there. And she did some
pictures for various churches, Baptist
churches, baptismal scenes. Which do you feel is
her most famous? Was it this one with the blue
bonnet? Yes. Everybody's always simply startled
at that picture. That's great. What were your
parents' names? I don't believe I have their
names. My mother's name was Mary Martin Adams, and
my father was George Ernest Adams.
Okay. Okay. And you are married too, is that
correct? Yes. How did you meet your husband? I met
him during the war at A&M. Was he a student here at
A&M? No, he was stationed here at that time. I see.
Was there a military base here? Yes, at A&M. At A&M,
I see. Was it an Army base? This particular branch
that he belonged to was Of
course, we had everything here during the war, you
know. Oh, I didn't know that. Yes, you did. The
Navy, the Air Force, they were all here. Bryan
Airfield was here. That's right,
that's right. That was used, I guess, well, let's
see, that was an Air Force field, or was that? That
property now belongs to Texas A&M University. But
it was previously an air base? Air base.
Travis Bryan, Sr. was instrumental in getting it
here. I guess then a lot of the people in this area
were affected by the war and I guess were
called into service, is that correct? Was your
husband, I guess, did he go overseas too? Yes.
What does your husband do now? Oh, he's a
university professor. Oh, I didn't know that. In
which department? In philosophy.
And I guess he enjoys this community as much as you
do, right? Well, he doesn't live here anymore. Oh,
I see.
Okay. Let me see. How did you, I guess you told me
both of your parents, I guess especially your
father was involved in a lot of political. Yes, he
was. Involvements and things. Served several
terms in the Texas legislature. He was mayor of
Bryan twice. He was on the school board a number of
times.
I guess you're quite proud of him. Yes. I was
amazed. All my life I thought all this bit about
public service, which my mother and father seemed
to be so involved in, was a rather thankless
proposition, but I think people really
appreciate them. More people than ever came to
anybody's funeral came to theirs. And I'm still
getting letters from people I never knew or heard
of saying how much they appreciate what they have
done for this community. Were you active in his
campaigning for mayor here in the community? No. I
wasn't in here. I don't know where I was. Oh, that's
something. When was he mayor here in Bryan?
I guess in the, I think in the 1950s. 1950. Okay. Do
you know possibly what the main issues were then,
or the main problems in Bryan that, you know, he
was, I'm sure had some ideas of things he wanted to
change here, maybe, you know? Well, he was always
particularly interested in education, because
he started out life as a school teacher. And he
always hoped that one of his children would be a
school teacher, but none of them turned out to be. I
taught school for six months. Oh my, that's
something. Did you teach in school after you
graduated then, before you became a librarian?
That's great. I taught in this little town out here
called Iowa. Iowa. Which still exists. Where is
that located? Well, it's out that way. Okay.
When was that that you taught there?
It was in the early 1930s.
That's something. What did you teach in
elementary school? Taught fifth grade. That's
great.
Did you feel at any time, or did you feel in the
limelight when your dad was, when your father was
mayor here, or did any of the children Are your
fellow friends envy you? I don't think so. You
don't think
so? That's interesting.
What kind of—let's
see, were there any particular holidays or
celebrations here in Bryan besides the
traditional holidays that they celebrated
during that year? Any particular, did they have
any like parades or
fairs maybe? Well they used to a long time ago have
fairs every year. Like a county fair? Yes. I don't
believe they do anymore. I can't remember the
period of any time lately.
Right. Did you ever go to them here? Yes. What were
they like? Do they show livestock? Oh, lots of
them. They show livestock and things
like that? Yes. What did Dad feel about you
becoming a librarian? Was he— Well, he was a
gribble. Gribble. Yeah. I taught my mother into
talking into the assembly library school.
Everything went through her. I see.
Did you do a lot of reading? What stimulated you
into becoming a librarian? Was that part of it?
Yes. Or did you spend yourself a lot of time in the
library here? Yes. I spent all my time in the
library
here.
How did they work that with checking out books in
those days? Did they do it the same as they do now?
When they first began the library over there, you
had a library card, and when you checked out a book,
the library had a stamp, and she stamped your book,
either the, I don't remember whether they stamped
it the day you took it out, or the day you were to
bring it back. I think they stamped it the day you
took it out, and then when they brought it back,
they stamped it again. I see. And did you have a
certain time you could keep the book out? Yes. I
believe they both circulated for two weeks. Now
they circulate for three. Three weeks. How did you
happen to get your position here at the library,
your present position now? Well, I was working in
the Detroit Public Library at the time, and I
looked at a professional journal. I just casually
saw that they were leaving the library in Bryan, so
I applied for the job. That's great. And when was
that, that you applied? I guess it was in the 1960s.
I've been here fifteen years. Fifteen years.
That's great. And where were you before you were in
Detroit?
Detroit Public. Are these people here while you
were away? Yes.
Okay.
Did your brothers or sisters—did your brothers go
to A&M here when they grew up and went to A&M? Yes,
they both. What was their major field of interest
there? My older brother was an engineer. He helped
build the Alcon Highway in Alaska. Oh, my. I have a
wonderful book with pictures of him and all the
work that they did. My younger brother went into
agriculture.
When was this highway built? During World War II.
During World War II?
That's great. Did they ever regret not having
women at the university? Oh, no. They thought the
main deal was to have it all men. To all men.
It remained for my niece, who was my brother's
daughter, to make a test case.
Well... My younger brother said that she ought to
be put in a convent. Oh, that's something.
What activities, did a lot of the boys go out of town
to see their girlfriends during those times since
there weren't girls here? Yes, they did. Every
weekend they went to see their women. So I guess the
place kind of was deserted during that time?
T.W.U., which was called C.I.A. then, you know.
What did that stand for? College of Industrial
Arts. Oh, I see. It's at Denton. It's now called
Texas University. Right. So a lot of them would go
up there. Did a lot of the fellows have cars during
that time to take them around or to get to places,
or? Some of them did, but you know, now they all do.
Right. What
do you think has
been your greatest satisfaction of living here in
Bryan? Being a librarian. Being a librarian.
That's great. Oh,
when was it that your parents died? Can you tell me
that? They've been dead, um, six years. Six years.
Was your father in any other organizations,
community organizations, before he became
mayor, besides, you know, being involved so much
with the university? You know, I mean, like amends
organizations here in Ryan, or do you know? Well,
he was a Rotarian. He's very much devoted to that
organization. And what were their activities or
are their activities? They're a civic
organization. They're very powerful and
influential
in the
community.
Do you think that, um, do you feel that people were
more politically involved in, in their
government, maybe here in Vine, or in the local
area, than people are today, do you think? No. No?
No. I think people are, in this area, are extremely
interested in their government.
All right. Uh,
can you think of any of the or maybe a problem in
Bryan that was of particular interest to a lot of
the people during your time that, you know, was
maybe controversial or anything? No, I suppose
the greatest controversy in my time has been a
debate over whether the school board should be
elected or appointed, and they finally decided to
elect it. For a long time, I believe it was the only
such situation in the state of Texas. So they were
appointed? They used to be appointed.
I see, I see.
What
do you think is has been your greatest joy as far as
being a citizen here in Bryan? Being the
librarian. Being the librarian. That's great.
How long have you been the head librarian here?
Fifteen years. Fifteen years.
That's great. Were you a librarian in Detroit
before you came here? Yes.
I
don't think I've got any more questions.